README.md, before:

# pynemaiqpet

python routines to analyze NEMA image quality phantom scans

## Authors

Georg Schramm

## License 

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

## Installation

We recommend to use the anaconda python distribution and to create a
conda virtual environment for pynemaiqpet.

The installation consists of three steps:
1. Installation of anaconda (miniconda) python distribution
2. Creation of the conda virtual environment with all dependencies
3. Installation of the pynemaiqpet package using pip

### Installation of anaconda (miniconda)

Download and install Miniconda from <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>.

Please use the ***Python 3.x*** installer and confirm that the installer
should run ```conda init``` at the end of the installtion process.

To test your miniconda installtion, open a new terminal and execute

```conda list```

which should list the installed basic python packages.

### Creation of the virtual conda environment

To create a virtual conda python=3.6 environment execute

```conda create -n pynemaiqpet python=3.6 ipython ```

To test the installation of the virual environment, execute
```conda activate pynemaiqpet```

### Installation of the pynemaiqpet package

Activate the virual conda environment
```conda activate pynemaiqpet```

To install the pynemaiqpet package run (replace X.XX with the latest release
version that can be found on https://github.com/gschramm/pynemaiqpet/releases)

```pip install https://github.com/gschramm/pynemaiqpet/archive/vX.XX.zip```

which will install the pynemaiqpet package inside the virtual
conda environment.

To test the installation run (inside python or ipython)

```python
import pynemaiqpet
print(pynemaiqpet.__version__)
print(pynemaiqpet.__file__) 
```

## Run demos

To test whether your installation works, you can run
the example wb_nema.py (located in the pynemaiqpet/examples subfolder). 

This example uses a test data set, included in the package.

Commit message:

add command line tool for NEMA WB analysis

README.md, after:

# pynemaiqpet

python routines to analyze NEMA image quality phantom scans

## Authors

Georg Schramm

## License 

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

## Installation

We recommend to use the anaconda python distribution and to create a
conda virtual environment for pynemaiqpet.

The installation consists of three steps:
1. Installation of anaconda (miniconda) python distribution
2. Creation of the conda virtual environment with all dependencies
3. Installation of the pynemaiqpet package using pip

### Installation of anaconda (miniconda)

Download and install Miniconda from <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>.

Please use the ***Python 3.x*** installer and confirm that the installer
should run ```conda init``` at the end of the installtion process.

To test your miniconda installtion, open a new terminal and execute

```conda list```

which should list the installed basic python packages.

### Creation of the virtual conda environment

To create a virtual conda python=3.6 environment execute

```conda create -n pynemaiqpet python=3.6 ipython ```

To test the installation of the virual environment, execute
```conda activate pynemaiqpet```

### Installation of the pynemaiqpet package

Activate the virual conda environment
```conda activate pynemaiqpet```

To install the pynemaiqpet package run (replace X.XX with the latest release
version that can be found on https://github.com/gschramm/pynemaiqpet/releases)

```pip install https://github.com/gschramm/pynemaiqpet/archive/vX.XX.zip```

which will install the pynemaiqpet package inside the virtual
conda environment.

To test the installation run (inside python or ipython)

```python
import pynemaiqpet
print(pynemaiqpet.__version__)
print(pynemaiqpet.__file__) 
```

## Run demos

If the installation was successful, the command line tool **pynemaiqpet_wb_nema_iq**, which allows to automatically analyze WB NEMA IQ scans from the command line, should be installed.

To list see all its command line options and the help page run
```
pynemaiqpet_wb_nema_iq -h
```
To analyze the provided demo dicom data "pet_recon_2", you e.g. run:
```
pynemaiqpet_wb_nema_iq pet_recon_2 --fwhm_mm 5 --output_dir pet_recon_2_results --show --verbose
``` 
which will read all files in the direcory "pet_recon_2", post-smooth with Gaussian with FWHM = 5mm, show the output and finally save the output into the directory "pet_recon_2_results".
